This guide provides instructions for deploying a Graph to Mechanical Turk or Prolific. 

## Prerequisites 
* A Graph.
* The ability to upload then generate public URLs for files (e.g. via S3)
* The ability to request ExternalQuestion HITs on [Mechanical Turk](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/mturk/) (e.g. via boto3) and/or Studies on [Prolific](https://docs.prolific.com/documentation/get-started/overview) (e.g. via Prolific's API or website) . 
* An endpoint which accepts and stores JSON data posted from participant browsers located at any of the public URLs mentioned above (e.g. via AWS Lambda function which writes to an S3 bucket). If this endpoint is at a different origin than your file uploads, ensure that the endpoint accepts cross-origin browser POSTs.



## 1. Build a site from your Graph
Use the `nk.build_site` function to convert your Graph into a static website; i.e. a folder with an HTML file, the `nodekit.js` and `nodekit.css` files, and any assets used by the Graph, such as images and videos. 

```python
import nodekit as nk
...
graph = nk.Graph(...)  # put your Graph here
result = nk.build_site(graph=graph, savedir="my-site") 
```

Of special interest is the HTML file (the "entrypoint"), which the participant will load in their web browser to play the Graph. You may retrieve the relative location of this file in the folder by accessing the `.entrypoint` property of the result:

```python hl_lines="5" linenums="1"
import nodekit as nk
...
graph = nk.Graph(...)  # put your Graph here
result = nk.build_site(graph=graph, savedir="my-site")
print("Entrypoint:", result.entrypoint)      # graphs/<hash>/index.html
```


??? tip "Deploying multiple Graphs?"
    When building multiple Graphs into deployable sites, one can reduce the total number of files generated by supplying a single `savedir` when calling `nk.build_site` on each Graph. 

    Doing so will allow each `index.html` to share files that they hold in common, such as `nodekit.js`, `nodekit.css`, and any Assets.

## 2. Upload the site to the internet
Sync the entire `site_root` to your host, preserving paths. If using S3, a typical command is:

```bash
aws s3 sync build/my-site s3://your-bucket/task --delete
```

Ensure you have the URL of the entrypoint HTML, and that it is publicly accessible. This is the link you will be using when requesting an MTurk HIT or Prolific Study in the next step. 


## 3. Deploy to a recruitment platform

The site built by `nk.build_site` is compatible with Mechanical Turk and Prolific. The built site handles the expected integration logic for each platform, out-of-the-box (e.g. extracting query parameters, POSTing data, redirecting at the right moment, ...), so you do not have to set this up yourself. 


However, some configuration might still be needed: **if you are using Prolific**, you must provide a `nodekitSubmitTo` query parameter whose value is a [URL-encoded](https://developers.google.com/maps/url-encoding) submission endpoint. This is how the Graph site will know where to transmit the participants' Trace data to your server or bucket.

For example, if your entrypoint URL is "https://site.com/graphs/568...7f6a/index.html", and you have an endpoint set up at "https://my-endpoint.com", you would specify the `nodekitSubmitTo` query parameter with: 


>https://example.com/graphs/568...7f6a/index.html**?nodekitSubmitTo=https%3A%2F%2Fmy-endpoint.com**



### 3a. Request a Mechanical Turk HIT

Mechanical Turk allows ExternalQuestion Assignments to post behavioral data to their backend, where you can later retrieve it. The Graph site automatically submits the Trace data to Mechanical Turk, even if `nodekitSubmitTo` is not provided. **Thus, supplying the `nodekitSubmitTo` query parameter is optional**, if you are using Mechanical Turk. 

Either way, once you have finalized the URL you will be using, use your preferred method to request an [ExternalQuestion HIT](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSMechTurk/latest/AWSMturkAPI/ApiReference_ExternalQuestionArticle.html) which points to the URL. One standard approach might be to use the `mturk` client provided in [boto3](https://boto3.amazonaws.com/v1/documentation/api/latest/reference/services/mturk.html).

??? tip "Maximizing the size of the display on Mechanical Turk"

    ExternalQuestion HITs on Mechanical Turk are displayed in an [iFrame](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Reference/Elements/iframe) element. It is recommended that you set the ExternalQuestion [FrameHeight](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSMechTurk/latest/AWSMturkAPI/ApiReference_ExternalQuestionArticle.html)  to `0`, which maximizes the size of the iFrame on the participant's web browser.


??? tip "Running the Graph outside the ExternalQuestion iFrame"

    If you'd like to have the participant run the Graph in its own page, you could set the ExternalQuestion link to a simple landing page which displays a link to the entrypoint URL of the Graph. If you do this, ensure your landing page attaches all the [query parameters that Mechanical Turk adds](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSMechTurk/latest/AWSMturkAPI/ApiReference_ExternalQuestionArticle.html) to the new page, such as the `assignmentId` query parameter. 


### 3b. Request a Prolific Study

If requesting a Prolific Study, add the following query parameters in the entrypoint URL:

* `nodekitSubmitTo`. As Prolific does not store participant data, specify the endpoint where you can accept JSON POST messages originating from the participant web page.  
* `prolificCompletionCode`. Specify the completion code you will use / has been issued when creating the Prolific Draft Study (see [link](https://docs.prolific.com/api-reference/studies/the-study-object#completion_codes-required)). NodeKit uses this code to construct and redirect to Prolific’s completion URL, per Prolific's recommended [redirect completion path](https://intercom-help.eu/prolific-research/en/articles/445127-data-collection#aTjpf).  Note NodeKit only supports the use of a single Prolific completion code.

Then, add the following three strings, separated by &. These are placeholder parameters that Prolific will substitute at runtime for each participant session. 

* `PROLIFIC_PID={{%PROLIFIC_PID%}}`
* `STUDY_ID={{%STUDY_ID%}}`
* `SESSION_ID={{%SESSION_ID%}}`


A full example URL for a Prolific Study should look like:
> https://my-task.com?nodekitSubmitTo=https%3A%2F%2Fmy-endpoint.com**&prolificCompletionCode=1&PROLIFIC_PID={{%PROLIFIC_PID%}}&STUDY_ID={{%STUDY_ID%}}&SESSION_ID={{%SESSION_ID%}}**


## 4. Download the results

Depending on whether you supplied a `nodekitSubmitTo` endpoint in the previous step, you can expect a JSON document to have been POSTed whenever each participant completed the Graph: 

If you did not supply a `nodekitSubmitTo` endpoint when using Mechanical Turk, you can retrieve the data using the [GetAssignment](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSMechTurk/latest/AWSMturkAPI/ApiReference_GetAssignmentOperation.html) operation and by inspecting the Answer data. 



## 5. Validate results

Once you download the submission payload from the previous step, you can validate the submission data:

```python 
import nodekit as nk
from pathlib import Path
import json

data = json.loads(Path('the-data.json').read_text())
payload = nk.SiteSubmission.model_validate_json(data)
print(payload.platform_context)
print(payload.trace)
```
